>>> ON THIS EDITION FO
SATURDAY, JUNE 14th, THE LATES
FROM IRAQ.
AS ISLAMIC STREAMISTS MOVE
TOWARD BUYING WE'LL EXPLOR
AMERICAN MILITARY OPTIONS.
WE'LL HEAR FROM A REPORTER O
THE GROUND THERE FROM HOW TH
LATEST FIGHTING AFFECTS OI
EXPORTS TO EUROPE AND THE UNITED
STATES
AND IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT
FROM CALIFORNIA, THE DEBAT
ABOUT PLANS TO IMPOSE NEW RULE
ON COMMERCIAL FISHING.
>> WE'RE SEEING THE IMAGES O
THE DECKS JUST FILLED WITH
BLOODY DOLPHINS.
>> IF THEY WERE TO PASS THIS
BILL, U.S. JOBS WOULD BE LOST.
>> NEXT ON PBS NEWS HOUR
WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK
>>> GOOD EVENING, THANKS FOR
JOINING US, THE PENTAGON TODAY
CONFIRMED A U.S. AIRCRAF
CARRIER IS BEING SENT TO THE
AFTER PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID H
WAS REVIEWING MILITARY OPTIONS
IN RESPONSE TO A RAPID 200 MIL
ADVANCE IN IRAQ BY ISLAMIC
MILITANTS.
DURING THE PAST SEVERAL DAYS
THE MILL ASSISTANTS, ISIS, HAV
OVERRUN IRAQI GOVERNMENT FORCE
AND CAPTURED MILITARY EQUIPMEN
DURING THEIR OFFENSIVE
TODAY, IRAQ MILITARY OFFICIALS
SAID THAT THE OFFENSIVE BY SUNNI
MUSLIM JIHADISTS HAD SLOWED AN
THAT THEY ARE TAKING SOME OF THE
TERRITORY BACK WITH THE HELP O
VOLUNTARY SHI'ITE MILITIAS
THE REBELS HAVE VOWED TO CAPTURE
BUYING, BUT TODAY A MILITARY
OFFICIAL INSISTED THE CAPITAL IS
COMPLETELY SAFE.
IRANIAN PRESIDENT HASSAN ROUHANI
SAID SATURDAY THAT IRAN WOULD BE
PREPARED TO HELP THE IRAQI
GOVERNMENT IF ASKED, BUT IT HA
NOT RECEIVED ANY REQUESTS.
WHAT ARE AMERICA'S MILITAR
OPTIONS?
FOR MORE ABOUT THAT, WE'RE
JOINED BY JANINE DAVIDSON, A
SENIOR FELLOW AT THE COUNCIL O
FOREIGN RELATIONS.
SO THE PRESIDENT HAS SAI
REPEATEDLY, NO BOOTS ON TH
GROUND
HERE WE HAVE AN AIRCRAFT CARRIER
OFF THE COAST.
DOES THAT MEAN DRONES AR
LIKELY, OR AIRCRAFT LAUNCHED
FROM THESE CARRIERS?
>> IT MEANS OPTIONS.
AN AIRCRAFT CARRIER CAN DO A
ARRAY OF THINGS FROM
INTELLIGENCE TO AIR STRIKES.
>> IN THESE SORT OF DENSEL
POPULATED AREAS, ARE WE LIKELY
TO INCUR GREATER CIVILIA
CASUALTIES IF WE DON'T HAV
PEOPLE ON THE GROUND
>> THAT IS THE GREATEST RISK O
AIR STRIKES AND WHY SOME PEOPL
THINK THEY'RE NOT A VIABLE
OPTION
YOU NEED PEOPLE ON THE GROUN
CALLING IN WHERE THOSE THING
ARE GOING TO HAPPEN, ESPECIALL
IN AN URBAN ENVIRONMENT.
NOW, IF THERE ARE AREAS WHER
THE ENEMY IS IN AN OPEN SPAC
AND YOU CAN CONFIRM, THEN IT MAY
BE MORE VIABLE
>> SO IN THESE OPEN SPACES, IF
I'M MARCHING DOWN THAT MAJOR
HIGHWAY TOWARDS BAGHDAD, DOE
THAT MAKE THEM MORE VISIBLE TO
THESE DRONES
>> SURE, IF I WAS A MILITARY
PLANNER FOR ISIS, I WOULD THIN
THAT'S A RISKY WAY TO GO, BUT IT
MAY BE THEIR ONLY OPTION
>> SO WHAT ARE THE DIREC
MILITARY OPTIONS THAT WE HAVE?
>> THE BEST OPTION OF ALL BA
OPTIONS, IS REALLY TO BE
ASSISTING TO GET THE IRAQI ARM
AND IRAQI SECURITY FORCES IN A
PLACE WHERE THEY CAN REGROUP AND
RESIST THIS.
AND IN ORDER TO DO THAT, YOU
HAVE GOT TO PUT PRESSURE O
MALACHI.
OTHERWISE THE UNDERLYING
PROBLEMS ARE NOT GOING TO GO
AWAY
IN FACT, I THINK THE PRESIDENT
IS RIGHT TO SAY, UNLESS HE HAS A
PLAN TO REFORM HIS POLITICAL
WAYS, IT IS FOLLY FOR US TO AD
FUEL TO THE FIRE
>> THERE WILL BE HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS OF AMERICANS SAYING,
WE TRIED TO GET THE IRAQ
MILITARY TO STAND UP, BUT WHEN
THEY WERE FACED WITH A FIGHT
LIKE THIS, THEY LAID DOWN THEI
ARMS AND RAN
SO EVEN IF WE TRY TO DO THIS
NOW, WHAT'S TO SAY IT WILL WORK?
>> THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ARE RIGHT
ABOUT THAT
IF WE TRY TO DO THIS NOW WITHOUT
PRESSURING MALACHI TO MAKE SUR
HE DOESN'T DO THE KINDS OF
THINGS THAT HE DID BEFORE, WHICH
IS TO FIRE THE GOOD LEADERSHIP
THAT WE HELPED LEAD AND TRAI
AND PUT IN PLACE, AND PU
UNTRAINED LEADERS ACROSS THE
SPECTRUM OF THE MILITARY, THAT'S
PART OF -- THAT'S PROBABLY ONE
OF THE MAIN REASONS WHY THE ARMY
FELL APART
THEY HAVE TERRIBLE LEADERSHIP,
AND THEY HAVE NOT SUSTAINED TH
TRAJECTORY THAT WAS SET FO
THEM
AND THAT'S ON MALACHI.
>> DOESN'T SEEM TO BE MANY OTHER
WESTERN COUNTRIES LINING UP TO
VOLUNTEER TO GO BACK IN, EITHE
WITH BOOTS ON THE GROUND, OR ANY
OTHER MILITARY RESOURCES
>> FRANKLY, THE EUROPEANS HAVE A
LOT AT STAKE HERE.
REGARDLESS OF HOW THIS THING
STARTED, GO BACK TO THE INITIA
INVASION, OR ALL THE WAY TO WHAT
MALACHI HAS DONE SINCE
THE FACT IS ISIS HAS MORPHED
INTO A VIRULENT THREAT TO TH
REGION THAT THREATENS TO SPILL
BEYOND THE REGION.
THERE ARE FIGHTERS COMING FROM
EUROPEAN AND AMERICA WIT
WESTERN PASSPORTS TO JOIN THAT
IN SYRIA
WHERE ARE THEY GOING TO GO
AFTER?
ARE THEY GOING TO BRING THAT
FIGHT HOME
SO IT IS IN THE EUROPEANS'
INTEREST TO PAY ATTENTION TO
WHAT'S HAPPENING HERE.
>> SO THERE'S A LOT OF DIFFERENT
REGIONAL, KIND OF, CONNECTIONS
INVOLVED HERE.
THE SAUDIS, WHO ARE OUR ALLIES
HAVE BEEN SUPPORTING THE SUNNI
REBELS AGAINST SYRIA
THE IRANIANS, WHO ARE NOT OU
ALLIES, COULD BE IN THIS
PARTICULAR CASE.
>> RIGHT
YOU KNOW, WHEN YOU LOOK AT THI
REGION FROM A WESTER
NATION-STATE PERSPECTIVE, IT
LOOKS REALLY COMPLEX, AND IT IS.
WHEN YOU LOOK AT IT WITH A
ETHNIC, RELIGIOUS, TRIBA
PERSPECTIVE, IT STARTS TO MAKE A
LOT MORE SENSE
SO THE BEHAVIOR OF THE IRANIANS,
THEY ARE HELPING HEZBOLLAH AND
ASSAD'S FORCES AGAINST SUNNI
UPRISING IN SYRIA.
TO THEM, THEY'RE GOING TO BE
DOING THE SAME THING IN IRAQ
AGAINST THE SAME GUYS, YOU KNOW,
THE BORDER IS LESS RELEVANT TO
THE FACT THAT THESE GUYS ARE
THEIR ENEMY.
>> JANINE DAVIDSON, FROM THE
COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
THANKS SO MUCH
>> MY PLEASURE
>>> IN UKRAINE TODAY
PRO-RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS SHOT
DOWN A GOVERNMENT MILITARY
TRANSPORT PLANE AND ALL 49
PEOPLE ABOARD WERE KILLED.
IT WAS THE SINGLE DEADLIES
INCIDENT SINCE VIOLENCE ERUPTE
IN THE EASTERN PART OF THE
COUNTRY FOUR MONTHS AGO.
IN THE AFTERMATH OF TH
INCIDENT, ANTI-RUSSIAN
DEMONSTRATORS TURNED OVER CARS
AND THREW PAINT AND EGGS OUTSIDE
THE RUSSIAN EMBASSY IN KIEV.
UKRAINE'S NEW PRESIDENT DECLARED
A DAY OF MOURNING.
>>> AN ESTIMATED SEVEN MILLION
PEOPLE TURNED OUT TO VOTE TODA
IN AFGHANISTAN'S PRESIDENTIA
ELECTION, ABOUT 60% OF THOSE
ELIGIBLE
IT PITS ABDULLAH ABDULLA
AGAINST FORMER FINANCE MINISTE
AND EX-WORLD BANK OFFICIAL
PRELIMINARY RESULTS ARE NO
EXPECTED FOR SEVERAL WEEKS
THE ELECTION WAS MARRED BY A
SERIES OF SMALL ATTACKS, THA
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS SAYS LEFT
NEARLY 50 PEOPLE DEAD.
>>> THREE JEWISH TEENAGERS ARE
MISSING IN THE WEST BANK
AND TODAY AS ISRAELI SECURIT
FORCES RAMPED UP THE SEARCH FO
THEM
THE PRIME MINISTER SAID THEY
WERE KIDNAPPED BY A TERROR
GROUP.
ONE OF THE BOYS, A 16-YEAR-OLD
IS AN AMERICAN CITIZEN
THE TEENS WERE REPORTEDLY HITC
HIKING FROM A JEWISH SETTLEMEN
IN THE WEST BANK
ISRAEL'S DEFENSE MINISTER SAYS
HE ASSUMES THE BOYS ARE STIL
ALIVE.
>>> FROM WASHINGTON, WORD THAT
POTENTIALLY SENSITIVE E-MAIL
SOUGHT BY CONGRESSIONA
INVESTIGATORS BY A TOP IRS
FIBL -- OFFICIAL ARE MISSING
THEY'RE THOUGHT TO SHED LIGHT ON
THE IRS'S INTENSE SCRUTINY O
APPLICATIONS FOR TAX-EXEMP
STATUS BY TEA PARTY AND OTHE
GROUPS
A JUSTICE DEPARTMENT INVESTIGATE
HAS BEEN CALLED FOR.
>> THE IRS SAID THE E-MAILS WERE
LOST IN A COMPUTER CROSS I
-- COMPUTER CRASH IN 2011.
IT SAID THE MISSING EMAILS COULD
NOT BE RETRIEVED DESPITE
REPEATED EFFORTS
>>> LAWYERS FOR A CONDEMNED MA
WHOSE THE INTRAVENOUS LINE WAS
NEVER PROPERLY INSERTED.
THE CONDEMNED MAN REPORTEDLY
WRITHED IN PAIN FOR 40 MINUTES
BEFORE SUFFERING A MASSIVE FATAL
HEART ATTACK
LOCKET WAS CONVICTED OF SHOOTING
A 19-YEAR-OLD WOMAN WHO WA
LATER BURIED ALIVE
>> HONDA WILL REPORTEDLY RECAL
MORE THAN A MILLION CARS WIT
DEFECTIVE AIR BAGS, ACCORDING TO
THE REUTERS NEWS AGENCY.
THE LIST OF HONDA MODELS
INVOLVED WAS NOT IMMEDIATELY
AVAILABLE.
>> TOYOTA HAS ALREADY RECALLED
TWO MILLION VEHICLES WITH TH
SAME POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
FOR A LIST OF THOSE CAR, GO TO
NEWS HOUR.PBS.ORG.
>>> THERE'S BEEN A MAJOR
OUTBREAK OF WHOOPING COUGH I
CALIFORNIA
HEALTH OFFICIALS SAY 3,500 CASES
HAVE BEEN REPORTED SINCE THE
START OF 2014.
NATIONALLY THE NUMBER OF CASES
WAS UP 24% DURING THE FIRST FOUR
MONTHS OF 2014
PUBLIC HEALTH EXPERTS SAY
VACCINE IS THE BEST DEFENS
AGAINST THE HIGHLY CONTAGIOU
DISEASE WHICH IS SPREAD THROUG
COUGHING AND SNEEZING.
>>> AND CHUCK KNOWLE, THE ONLY
NFL COACH TO WIN SUPER BOWLS
HAS DIED
HE WAS 82.
HE GOT TITLES BETWEEN 1975 AND
HE SAID HE WANTED TO B
REMEMBERED AS SOMEONE WHO COUL
ADAPT TO A WORLD OF CONSTANT
CHANGE, BUT MOST OF ALL, AS
TEACHER.
♪♪
>>> FOR MORE ON THE SITUATION IN
IRAQ, WE'RE JOINED NOW BY MATT
BRADLEY OF "THE WALL STREE
JOURNAL.
MATT, WHO IS IN CHARGE OF THAT
AREA RIGHT NOW
>> THE SITUATION HERE IN AR-BEAL
HAS NOT CHANGED SINCE THE U.S.
INVASION IN 2003
THE KURDISTAN REGIONAL
GOVERNMENT IS IN CHARGE HERE
WHAT'S INTERESTING RIGHT NOW
KURDISTAN HAS BEEN ABLE TO
ADVANCE THEIR SOLDIERS TO PICK
UP THE SLACK FROM WHERE TH
IRAQI TROOPS HAVE LEFT OFF
THEY'VE ACTUALLY BEEN ABLE T
TAKE SOME TERRITORY.
SOME OF THE OFFICIALS I'VE SPOKE
WITH SAID THEY'RE NOT PLANNING
ON GIVING IT BACK, NO MATTER HOW
SECURE THE REST OF IRAQ BECOMES.
>> THIS IS AN OIL-RICH AREA.
PRICES HAVE FLUCTUATED WILDLY,
MOSTLY IN THE UPWARD DIRECTION
THIS PAST WEEK
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
BUT KURDISTAN REMAINS CALM I
IRAQ, AS IT HAS FOR THE LAST TEN
YEARS.
SO THEY'RE STILL PUMPING OIL
BUT THIS PARTICULAR COMPLEX,
THESE VICTORIES BY ISIS HAVE
ALLOWED FOR THE KURDISTA
REGIONAL GOVERNMENT TO ASSER
ITSELF WHERE THE IRAQI MILITAR
HAS FALLEN DOWN, WHERE THEY HAVE
FAILED
>> WHERE DOES MOST OF THE OI
FROM THAT REGION GO?
DOES IT GO TO EUROPE
IS THERE A CONSEQUENCES TO THE
UNITED STATES?
>> OIL A GLOBAL COMMODITY, S
THE PRICE OF OIL SHIFT
GLOBALLY
THE PRICE OF AGO IS GOING TO -
IS SOMEWHAT SEPARATE FROM WHER
THE OIL IS COMING FROM
BUT MOST OF THE OIL IN IRAQ,
WHICH COMES FROM SOME OF THE
MAJOR RESERVES IN THE SOUTH,
THAT GOES TO CHINA
CHINA IS ABOUT TO BECOME, BY
FAR, THE LARGEST BUYER OF IRAQ
OIL.
AS CHINA HAS BECOME ONE OF THE
LARGEST ENERGY CONSUMERS IN TH
WORLD BECAUSE OF THE GROWING
ECONOMY.
SO THIS IS, THIS IS GOING TO
HAVE A MAJOR EFFECT, NOT JUST ON
CHINA'S CONSUMPTION OF OIL, BU
THE PRICE OF OIL GLOBALLY,
BECAUSE THAT'S HOW THE MARKE
WORKS IN PETROLEUM
>> AND OIL FROM THE NORTH, DOE
IT GO TO A DIFFERENT AREA?
>> THE OIL FROM THE NORTH TEND
TO GO TOWARD EUROPE AND TURKEY
BUT RIGHT NOW THERE'S A DISPUT
BETWEEN THIS KURDISTAN REGIONA
GOVERNMENT AND BAGHDAD
THE KURDS WANT TO SELL THEIR OWN
OIL INDEPENDENTLY WITHOUT HAVING
TO CHANNEL THE PROFITS AND THE
OIL ITSELF THROUGH THE IRAQI
MARKET IN BAGHDAD.
THEY'VE BEEN TRYING TO SMUGGLE
OIL OUT OF KURDISTAN AND BRING
IT TO THE GLOBAL MARKET TO BRING
TO EUROPE AND OTHER PLACES
THAT'S A DISPUTE THAT WAS REALLY
REACHING A VERY DIFFICULT MOMENT
RIGHT UP UNTIL THE MOMENT WHEN
THESE ATTACKS BY ISLAMIS
MILITANTS REALLY SENT THE IRAQ
MILITARY RUNNING AND REALL
EMBOLDENED THE KURDS
AND THERE'S BEEN ACCUSATION FROM
BAGHDAD, OF COURSE, THAT THE
KURDS WERE WORKING WITH TH
SUNNI MILITANTS THAT WEAKE
BAGHDAD SO THEY COULD ASSERT
THEIR CAUSE AND ECONOMIC RIGHTS.
KURDISH OFFICIALS DENY THE
ALLEGATIONS, BUT STILL, TH
KURDS ARE THE BIG WINNERS IN ALL
OF THIS.
>> SO WHAT'S THE MOOD ON THE
STREETS?
ARE THEY CONCERNED ABOUT THE WAR
THAT MAY HAPPEN FURTHER SOUTH?
OR THE SIGNIFICANT FIGHTIN
THAT'S GOING ON AROUND THEM IN
OTHER TOWNS?
>> THE FEELING ON THE STREET
HERE, THIS IS THE MOMENT FOR
KURDISTAN.
THIS IS THE MOMENT FOR KURDISH
NATIONALS.
SO THERE'S A STRONG FEELIN
THAT -- THERE'S A STRONG FEELING
OF SHADEN FREUD, IF YOU WILL
THE GERMAN WORD THAT MEANS
PLEASURE IN SOMEONE ELSE'S PAIN.
THE CONCEPT THAT IRAQ IS BEING
TORN ASUNDER THAT THE KURDS WERE
TRYING TO KEEP IRAQ TOGETHER
THAT THEY WERE COMING TO THE
NEGOTIATION TABLES, NEGOTIATIN
IN GOOD FAITH WITH THE BAGHDAD
GOVERNMENT, AND THAT BAGHDAD
WITH MALACHI'S OWN SECTARIAN
POLICIES, THAT BAGHDAD DID
ITSELF IN.
>> ALL RIGHT, MATT BRADLEY
THANKS SO MUCH
>> THANK YOU
♪♪
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT.
TONIGHT WE REPORT FROM
CALIFORNIA ABOUT A MAJOR CLASH
BETWEEN ENVIRONMENTALISTS TRYING
TO COLLECT THE WIFE OFF SHOR
AND COMMERCIAL FISHERMEN WHO
DEPEND ON THE OCEAN'S BOUNTS
FOR THEIR LIVELY HOOD.
RECENTLY RELEASED IMAGES HAS
HEIGHTENED THE DEBATE.
SOME OF THE IMAGES IN OUR REPORT
MAY DISTURB YOU.
>> THE COAST OF CALIFORNIA HAS A
WEALTH AND VARIETY OF MARINE
LIFE
ON BEACHES SOUTH OF SA
FRANCISCO, HUNDREDS OF ELEPHAN
SEALS BACK IN THE SUN.
SEA LIONS GATHER, WHILE WHALES
DOLPHINS, SHARKS, AND OTHER SE
LIFE ROAM THE OPEN OCEAN
BUT THESE SEA LIFE OF DEAD
ANIMALS IN THE NETS OF FISHERMEN
HAVE OUTRAGED CONSERVATIONISTS
>> WE'RE SEEING THESE IMAGES O
THE DECKS JUST FILLED WITH THESE
BLOODY DOLPHINS, THESE AMAZING
SEA TURTLES AND TO LITERALLY
JUST BE GOING THROUGH HUNDREDS
OF THESE IMAGES, IT MAKES ME
SICK TO MY STOMACH
>> THE CALIFORNIA PROGRA
DIRECTOR FOR OCEANA, A
INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION THA
FOCUSES ON OCEAN CONSERVATION.
HE OBTAINED THESE PHOTOGRAPH
THROUGH NOAH, THROUGH A FREEDO
OF INFORMATION REQUEST
THESE PHOTOS WERE TAKEN BY
FEDERAL EMPLOYEES MONITORING
BICATCH.
FISH AND OTHER MARINE CREATURE
CAUGHT BY ACCIDENT DURIN
COMMERCIAL FISHING
THE PHOTOS WERE TAKEN ON
CALIFORNIA COMMERCIAL FISHIN
BOATS THAT USE DRIFT GILL NETS
ONE-MILE-LONG MESH NETS INTENDED
TO CATCH SWORDFISH, BUT CATC
OTHER SEA LIFE AS WELL
>> IN TERMS OF THE KNOWN DEATH
AND MORTALITIES TO A LOT O
THESE ICONIC SPECIES, WHER
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT LARGE
SHARKS, SEA TURTLES, DOLPHINS,
AND WHALES, I'M NOT AWARE OF A
SINGLE OTHER ACTIVITY THAT
HUMANS ARE DOING THAT IS
ACTUALLY CAUSING THE DIREC
DEATH OF SUCH A LARGE NUMBER O
ANIMALS.
>> OCEANA ESTIMATES THAT FOR
EVERY FIVE SWORDFISH CAUGHT, ONE
MARINE MAMMAL DIES IN THE NET,
SUFFOCATES OR DIES FROM WOUNDS
INFLICTED BY THE NET
>> SWORDFISHS WAS EXEMPT, ONLY
FACING SOME RESTRICTIONS
NOW OCEANA IS SUPPORTING NEW
LEGISLATION IN CALIFORNIA TO BAN
THE USE OF NETS FOR SWAR
FISHING AS WELL.
WE'RE LOSING OUR OCEAN WIFE.
WHAT'S HAPPENING ALONG
CALIFORNIA, WE HAVE ONE OF THE
RICHEST OCEAN CURRENTS THA
FLOWS ACROSS THE MOST POPULA
STATE, CALIFORNIA.
>> BARBARA BLOCK HAS FOUND THE
WATERS OFF THE COAST O
CALIFORNIA HAVE ONE OF THE MOS
ROBUST ECO-SYSTEMS ON EARTH, A
DISCOVERY THAT HAS GIVEN
CONSERVATIONISTS AMMUNITION TO
DEMAND STRICTER PROTECTIONS.
>> THIS IS UNLIKE ANY OTHE
PLACE IN THE WORLD
>> VERY FEW PLACES ARE LIK
THAT, THAT IS INTACT ECO-SYSTEMS
STILL IN PLAY.
>> OVER TEN YEARS, SCIENTIST
PIONEERED A PRACTICE OF TRACKING
THE MOVEMENTS OF LARGE SEAURES
THEY FITTED SHARKS, TURTLES,
BLUE FIN TURTLE AND OTHER SE
LIFE WITH MONITORS THAT BEAM
DATA ABOUT THEIR MOVEMENT TO
SATELLITE.
WHAT BLOCK LEARNED WAS THA
THESE ANIMALS TRAVELED THOUSANDS
OF MILES ACROSS THE PACIFI
OCEAN IN MIGRATORY PATTERNS AKIN
TO LAND-BASED MAMMALS AND ALSO
RETURNED TO THE SLIVER OF OCEA
OFF CALIFORNIA
>> WE'VE DISCOVERED THIS IS
PLACE WHERE WIFE GATHERS
EQUIVALENT TO THE PLAINS O
AFRICA
INSTEAD IT'S WHITE SHARKS, TUN
A MAACOS, ELEPHANT SEE SEALS
WHALES, ALL WITHIN A STONE'S
THROW FROM MONTEREY.
>> BLOCK DUBBED THIS REGION TH
BLUE SERENGETI BECAUSE OF IT
SIMILARITY WITH THE AFRICA
SERENGETI WHERE ANIMALS ROAM
FREELY
SHE'S PART OF A CAMPAIGN T
PROTECT THIS AREA.
IT WOULD LIMIT OIL AND GAS
EXPLORATION IN THESE AREA SKPG
BAN THE USE OF JET SKIS.
BUT SUNKUARIES DON'T REGULAT
COMMERCIAL FISHING AND THE USE
OF GILL NETS WHICH IS WHY HE
SPORTS A BAN
GILL NETTING CAN A DESTRUCTIVE
FORM OF FISHING.
I THINK THE OCEANS REQUIRE FUL
MOVEMENT, WHERE WE'RE PUTTIN
OUT TO EVERYONE ELSE ON TH
GLOBE, WE'RE TAKING A STAND AN
PRESERVING THESE PLACES AN
PROTECTING THE WIFE THAT EXIST
HERE
>> BUT THE POSSIBILITY O
BANNING GILL NETS COMPLETELY HAS
THESE FISHERMEN UP IN ARMS
>> IT'S SAD.
IT'S SAD
I DON'T WANT TO SAY MY
GRANDFATHER IS ROLLING OVER IN
HIS GRAVE RIGHT NOW, BUT BOT
NIGH GRANDFATHERS WERE
FISHERMEN.
>> KATHY SAYS HER FAMILY HAS
BEEN IN THE FISHING INDUSTRY
HERE SINCE THE 1830s, BEFORE
CALIFORNIA WAS EVEN A STATE IN
THE UNION.
HER ANCESTORS WERE WHALERS
TODAY HER FAMILY FISHES MOSTLY
FOR SWORDFISH, WHICH THEY US
GILL NETS TO CATCH
>> THE MAJORITY OF OUR LIVEL
HOOD COMES FROM SWORDFISHING AND
ALL THE BOATS HERE, IT WILL TAKE
A THIRD OF THEIR INCOME OR MORE.
>> IF THE SWORDFISH FISHER
DISAPPEARS OFF THE COAST O
CALIFORNIA, A THIRD OF THEIR
SALARY IS GONE
>> A THIRD OR MORE
YES, MOST OF THE FISHERMEN WOULD
GO OUT OF BUSINESS
>> SHE ADMITS OTHER ANIMALS GE
CAUGHT IN THE NETS
>> ALL FISHERIES HAVE A BICATCH.
>> SHE SAID SWORDFISHING I
ALREADY HIGHLY REGULATED
MAKING THEM LOWER THEIR NETS S
DOLPHINS AND SEALS DON'T GET
TRAPPED.
IF THEY WERE TO PASS THIS BILL
ALL THE SWORDFISH WOULD BE
IMPORTED, AND THE U.S. JOB
WOULD BE LOST.
>> MARITIME CULTURES ARE
ENDANGERED TODAY AS MUCH A
THESE FISHES ARE, THESE MARINE
MAMMALS ARE.
>> AN EXPERT ON MARINE POLIC
AND A -- HE BELIEVES THEY MUST
NOT FORGET ABOUT THE FISHERMEN
WHO'S LIVELIHOODS AND WAY OF
LIFE HANG IN THE BALANCE
>> WE NEED TO MAKE IT MORE
EQUITABLE, THE LOSS OF OUR
MARITIME TRADITION, AND TH
FISHING FAMILIES THAT ARE PART
OF THAT.
>> CONSERVATIONISTS ARE QUICK TO
SAY THEY DON'T WANT GILL NET
FISHERMEN TO LOSE THEIR LIVE
LEEHOOD, THEY WANT THEM TO FIS
IN A DIFFERENT MANNER.
SUCH AS A HARPOON.
>> YOU WILL NOT RECEIVE ENOUGH
FISH IN A CATCH, OR A TRIP, TO
MAKE IT COMMERCIALLY CAUGHT.
IT WOULD COST TOO MUCH MONEY T
GO OUT THERE AND DRIVE YOUR BOAT
OUT THERE AND CATCH ON
SWORDFISH A DAY.
>> WHEN I SPOKE TO FISHERMEN AND
BROUGHT UP THE IDEA OF USING
HARPOON, THEIR RESPONSE WAS, ONE
FISH AT A TIME WOULD PUT THE
OUT OF BUSINESS.
>> HARPOONING, YOU SPEND A LOT
OF TIME SEARCHING.
GILL NET, YOU PUT THAT OUT O
THE OCEAN HIGHWAY, FULL OF
TRAVELING EVERYTHING, AND IT'S A
LOT EASIER
>> HE ALSO POINTS OUT THAT GIL
NET FISHING TAKES PLACE ON THE
COASTAL WATERS OF EVER
CONTINENT EXCEPT ANTARCTICA.
AND BECAUSE THESE FISH AND
MARINE MAMMALS MIGRATE BACK AN
FORTH ACROSS THE OCEAN, IF
THEY'RE NOT CAUGHT IN AMERICAN
GILL NETS, THEY'LL BE CAUGHT I
OTHER GILL NETS.
>> IT'S AN IMPORTANT PART OF THE
PUZZLE THAT NEEDS TO B
CONSIDERED STRATEGICALLY I
WE'RE INTERESTED IN PROTECTING
SMARKS AND MAMMALS AND DOLPHIN
AND TURTLES.
WE NEED TO WORK TOGETHER
SO WHAT HAPPENS IN OUR
JURISDICTION MAY HAVE AN
IMPORTANT PART OF A ROLE I
PROTECTING THE SPECIES, BU
OTHER COUNTRIES ARE STIL
FISHING AND THEY'RE STILL USIN
THE TYPE OF GEAR THAT AR
INDISCRIMINATE, WHERE YOU HAVE A
HIGH LEVEL OF BICATCH.
>> JUST LAST MONTH, HERE I
CALIFORNIA, THE PROPOSED BILL TO
BAN GILL NETS FAILED TO MAKE I
PAST THE ASSEMBLY COMMITTEE BY
JUST ONE VOTE.
THAT MEANS ADVOCATES WILL HAVE
TO WAIT UNTIL NEXT YEAR TO TRY
TO END GILL NET FISHING OFF TH
COAST OF CALIFORNIA.
>> DO YOU KNOW WHERE YOU
SEAFOOD COMES FROM
LEARN SEVEN QUESTIONS YOU CA
ASK BEFORE YOU EAT
VISIT NEWS HOUR.PBS.ORG.
♪♪
>> THIS IS PBS "NEWS HOU
WEEKEND" SATURDAY.
>> FROM ENGLAND TONIGHT, THE
STORY OF A SPORTSWOMAN WHO A
QUARTER CENTURY AGO LED TH
FIRST ALL WOMEN'S TEAM T
COMPLETE AN AROUND-THE-WORLD
YACHT RACE
NOW HE'S TRYING TO SAVE WHAT SHE
REFERS TO AS THE 13th CREW
MEMBER
>> IS IT ANY WONDER TRAC
EDWARDS CANNOT FORGET THIS
MOMENT
SHE AND HER CREW HAD JUST MADE
HISTORY.
NEVER BEFORE HAD AN ALL FEMALE
TEAM MADE IT TO THE FINISHIN
LINE OF THE WHIP BREAD
ROUND-THE-WORLD RACE
IN 1990, SHE SILENCED THE CYNICS
WHO DOUBTED WOMEN WOULD BE
STRONG ENOUGH TO COMPETE
SHE OWED SO MUCH TO HER BELOVE
YACHT.
SHE COULDN'T AFFORD TO HOLD ON
TO THE YAKTS AFTERWARDS.
SHE'S NOW LEARNED WHAT HAPPENE
TO IT.
ABANDONED IN A MARINA IN THE
INDIAN OCEAN, NEGLECTED,
UNLOVED, LEFT TO ROT
SHE'S NOT BEEN ON THE WATER FO
TEN YEARS NOW, BUT SHE'S
EMBARKING ON A MISSION TO SAVE
IT
>> SHE REALLY WAS SO MUCH MORE
THAN A BOAT.
SHE WAS THE 13th CREW MEMBER
>> SHE SAVED MAIDEN ONCE BEFORE,
27 YEARS AGO WHEN SHE FOUND TH
58-FOOT YACHT IN A POOR STATE OF
REPAIR, DUMPED IN CAPE TOWN, AND
WORKED TIRELESSLY TO MAKE HE
FIT FOR THE ROUND-THE-WORL
RACE
EDWARDS HOPES, ONCE RETURNED
SHE'LL BE USED FOR YOUTH
CHARITIES IN THE UK AND SHE'
ASKING THE PUBLIC TO BACK HER AS
THEY DID IN 1990
>> IT WASN'T ABOUT A BUNCH O
GIRLS SAILING AROUND THE WORLD
IT WAS SO MUCH MORE THAN THAT.
IT WAS LIKE A MAGNET TO ANYONE
THAT THOUGHT THAT THEY SHOULDN'T
BE TOLD YOU CAN'T DO SOMETHING
>> IF ALL GOES TO PLAN, TRAC
EDWARDS HOPES TO SAIL MAIDEN
BACK INTO SOUTHAMPTON NEXT MAY
EXACTLY 25 YEARS AFTER THE
ENTERED THE RECORD BOOKS
♪♪
>> BEFORE WE LEAVE YOU TONIGHT
A QUICK UPDATE OF TODAY'S NEWS
ENGLAND'S GARDIAN NEWSPAPER IS
REPORTING 2,000 IRANIAN TROOPS
HAVE MOVED INTO IRAQ
IN BUYING TO OVERSEA THE DEFENSE
OF THE IRAQI CAPITAL AGAINST
JIHADISTS, NEITHER GOVERNMENT IS
CON FIRMING THE REPORT
THEY'RE NOW WITHIN 60 MILES OF
BAGHDAD.
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION O
PBS "NEWS HOUR WEEKEND."
WE HOPE YOU'LL JOIN US AGAIN
TOMORROW EVENING